# Space-Armada-CS50G-Project-
My Final Project for the CS50 Introduction to Game Development Course on EDX

Space Armada is my submission for the final project, basically it is a 3D spaceshooter game where you - the pilot - have to reach end goal which is a planet after defeating all the enemy spaceships who have to avoid astroides and dodge enemy lasers while fighting back to defeat the enemy ships and reach the goal.I got the idea from Starwars Battlefront 2 it had great spacship levels where two teams have to destroy a certain number of enemy ships.

Before starting to make the game I decided to make it a level based game so basiclly get from start to finish. But you can't reach the end unless you destroy all enemy spaceships. The character's spaceship is controlled using the mouse. A crosshair is shown in place of the mouse that is used to move and change the direction of the ship and to also aim and fire the lasers. I downloaded 3D spaceship models from the internet since I am really bad at making 3D models. The position of the mouse is calculated and the ship moves towards that position for example if you point the crosshair up right the ship will start flying in an up right direction. I also made the ship accelerate with the 'w' key, once the 'w' key is pressed a speed multiplier starts to increase its variables but doesn't go past a certain limit. Pressing the 'a' key makes the ship barrel roll to the left while presign the 'd' key makes the ship barrel roll right.

Since the game hase linear progression - go from start to finish - I gave the spaceship limit on how far up, down, left, and right it can go so you can't just keep flying away. To make the lasers I used raycasting. I stored the coordinates of the point that the ray hit and spawned the laser and made it go forward facing the ray hit point. To make the ray detect anything in the first place I gave it a huge range and surrounded the entire level in panels that way the ray will always hit something. And once the ray collides with an object it makes a small explosion and gets removed.

I made a main menu scene using buttons and text mesh pro. The main menu scene has three options Play, How to play, and Quit. the Quit function will not work in the editior so to make sure it is workng by making a debug massage appear after you click on it. The how to play button takes you to an instructions page where the controls and the objective are explained. The play function gives you a loading screen while the level starts loading. Next is the Game over scene Which had a Try again button - which basiclly does the same thing as the play button in the main menu - a Return to main menu button - which sends that player back to the main menu scene - and a Quit button. Finally a Victory Scene which has exactly the same buttons as the ones in the game over scene.

Back to the level itself, I made a hitbox for my ship using box collision. Then I added astroides that sends the player to Game over scene the moment he collides with them. Next I had to make some enemy ships now the game that I got my idea from - Star wars Battlefront 2 - was online so the pilots you were fighting were other real humans, since I am not making an online game I have to make a computer controlled ship. The first type of ships that I decided to make were Scout ships they were very simple once you get close to them they start moving forward if you shoot them until their health goes down to zero they explode and if they pass a certain point the fly away until they disapear, they were basically target practice and were easy to make.

But the next type of ships were the biggest problem in this entire project. They were called strikers they are ships that look at you and try to move behide you to shoot you. Just making thier movement work has a huge pain since they kept glitching and bugging and I had to try for so long to perfect their movement. Then they had to shoot so I copied the prefabe of my red laser blast and changed it to green while also teawking its behaviour. Then I made the Striker shoot the green laser blast once it detects the player infront on it. Finally I gave them a hit box, health and an explosion effect once their health reaches zero.

Finally I just had the music, sound effects, and polishing. I started ny fixing some of the major glitches like the one that made laser shoot at yourself and some of the collision glitches. Then I downloaded sound effects for the explosion and laser beam shooting. I made the explosion sound for the players ship only because sound doen't travel in space so you won't hear the enemy ship's explosion sound - this is definitly not an excuse because I wasn't able to make it work ;) - then I found some nice music for for all the game scenes and the game was ready.

There were other stuff that I wanted to add but I didn't have enough time or I didn't know how. But I think that the project is fleshed out enough to be accepted even if it is short. Since I used stuff like Instantiating, Quarintons, Colliders, UI, Loading bars, Ray casting and many more I really like how this project turned out out and I hope you do too.
